Such rigid approaches to branch prediction rely on stereotypical behavior 
and don’t account for the individuality of a specifi c branch instruction. Dynamic
hardware predictors, in stark contrast, make their guesses depending on the 
behavior of each branch and may change predictions for a branch over the life of 
a program. Following our analogy, in dynamic prediction a person would look at 
how dirty the uniform was and guess at the formula, adjusting the next prediction 
depending on the success of recent guesses.
One popular approach to dynamic prediction of branches is keeping a history 
for each branch as taken or untaken, and then using the recent past behavior 
to predict the future. As we will see later, the amount and type of history kept 
have become extensive, with the result being that dynamic branch predictors can 
correctly predict branches with more than 90% accuracy (see Section 4.8). When 
the guess is wrong, the pipeline control must ensure that the instructions following 
the wrongly guessed branch have no eff ect and must restart the pipeline from the 
proper branch address. In our laundry analogy, we must stop taking new loads so 
that we can restart the load that we incorrectly predicted.
As in the case of all other solutions to control hazards, longer pipelines exacerbate 
the problem, in this case by raising the cost of misprediction. Solutions to control 
hazards are described in more detail in Section 4.8.
Elaboration: There is a third approach to the control hazard, called delayed decision. 
In our analogy, whenever you are going to make such a decision about laundry, just place 
a load of nonfootball clothes in the washer while waiting for football uniforms to dry. As 
long as you have enough dirty clothes that are not affected by the test, this solution 
works fi ne.
Called the delayed branch in computers, and mentioned above, this is the solution 
actually used by the MIPS architecture. The delayed branch always executes the next 
sequential instruction, with the branch taking place after that one instruction delay. 
It is hidden from the MIPS assembly language programmer because the assembler 
can automatically arrange the instructions to get the branch behavior desired by the 
programmer. MIPS software will place an instruction immediately after the delayed 
branch instruction that is not affected by the branch, and a taken branch changes 
the address of the instruction that follows this safe instruction. In our example, the 
add instruction before the branch in Figure 4.31 does not affect the branch and can 
be moved after the branch to fully hide the branch delay. Since delayed branches are 
useful when the branches are short, no processor uses a delayed branch of more 
than one cycle. For longer branch delays, hardware-based branch prediction is usually 
used.